README.md, before:

# archlinux-proaudio
[![Build Status](https://ci.cbix.de/api/badges/osam-cologne/archlinux-proaudio/status.svg)](https://ci.cbix.de/osam-cologne/archlinux-proaudio)
[![x86_64](https://arch.osamc.de/proaudio/x86_64/badge-count.svg)](https://arch.osamc.de/proaudio/x86_64/?P=*.pkg.tar.zst)
[![aarch64](https://arch.osamc.de/proaudio/aarch64/badge-count.svg)](https://arch.osamc.de/proaudio/aarch64/?P=*.pkg.tar.xz)

PKGBUILD files for the binary archlinux pro-audio OSAMC repository.

The repository is maintained and tested for both `x86_64` and `aarch64` (Arch Linux ARM) architectures.

Contributions are welcome!

## How to use
_As we're still working on the setup, this information maybe subject to change without notice!
We try to announce important changes on IRC ([#archlinux-proaudio](https://web.libera.chat/#archlinux-proaudio) on irc.libera.chat)
and reflect the current information on the [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Unofficial_user_repositories)._

Add the repo to your `/etc/pacman.conf`:
```
[proaudio]
Server = https://arch.osamc.de/$repo/$arch
```
Download the current signing key:
```
$ wget https://arch.osamc.de/proaudio/osamc.gpg
```
Import and sign locally:
```
# pacman-key --add osamc.gpg
# pacman-key --lsign-key 762AE5DB2B38786364BD81C4B9141BCC62D38EE5
```
You can now install packages from the repo using `pacman -Sy`.

## Guidelines
This project closely follows the [Arch package guidelines](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Arch_package_guidelines).
To support packaging, convenient tools are being maintained in this repo.
- [`.editorconfig`](https://editorconfig.org/) to ensure consistent formatting of PKGBUILDs in your editor (may need a plugin)
- `tools/fmt.sh` to manually format the PKGBUILD files (needs [`shfmt`](https://archlinux.org/packages/community/x86_64/shfmt/) installed)
- An [nvchecker](https://nvchecker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) config with patterns for all included packages.
- check the CI logs for hints:
  - [`namcap`](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Namcap) analysis of PKGBUILD
  - full build of the package in a [clean environment](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/DeveloperWiki:Building_in_a_clean_chroot#Why)
  - `namcap` analysis of the built package
  - rebuild and basic analysis of [reproducibility](https://reproducible-builds.org/) using [`diffoscope`](https://diffoscope.org/)

Commit message:

Simple website (#29)
* basic hugo site with package list

* build website after packages, simplify documentation

* responsive

* files max-height; sorting; fix line breaks; vendor css lib

* use RelPermalink

* banner, footer

* aarch64 toggle

README.md, after:

# archlinux-proaudio
[![Build Status](https://ci.cbix.de/api/badges/osam-cologne/archlinux-proaudio/status.svg)](https://ci.cbix.de/osam-cologne/archlinux-proaudio)
[![x86\_64](https://arch.osamc.de/proaudio/x86_64/badge-count.svg)](https://arch.osamc.de/#packages)
[![aarch64](https://arch.osamc.de/proaudio/aarch64/badge-count.svg)](https://arch.osamc.de/#packages)

Actively maintained binary package repo for Arch Linux of free and open source pro-audio software.

[**List of packages**](https://arch.osamc.de/#packages) | [**GitHub repo**](https://github.com/osam-cologne/archlinux-proaudio/)

The repository is maintained and tested for both `x86_64` and `aarch64` (Arch Linux ARM) architectures.

Contributions are welcome!

## How to use
_As we're still working on the setup, this information maybe subject to change without notice!
We try to announce important changes on IRC ([#archlinux-proaudio](https://web.libera.chat/#archlinux-proaudio) on irc.libera.chat)
and reflect the current information on the [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Unofficial_user_repositories)._

Add the repo to your `/etc/pacman.conf`:
```
[proaudio]
Server = https://arch.osamc.de/$repo/$arch
```
Download, import and sign the current signing key:
```
# curl https://arch.osamc.de/proaudio/osamc.gpg | pacman-key --add -
# pacman-key --lsign-key 762AE5DB2B38786364BD81C4B9141BCC62D38EE5
```
You can now install packages from the repo using `pacman -Sy`.
